README.md, before:

# $\Lambda$ ML

This is a project to train Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) for $\Lambda$ hyperon event identification at [CLAS12](https://www.jlab.org/physics/hall-b/clas12).
[Domain Adversarial](https://arxiv.org/abs/1505.07818), [Contrastive Adaptation](http://arxiv.org/abs/1901.00976), and [TIToK](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0893608023002137) approaches are implemented for adapting models to target data domains.

## :green_circle: Installation

You can use either a container image via [Docker](https://www.docker.com) or install manually assuming you have python installed.

### Installation Via Docker

Begin by cloning the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/mfmceneaney/lambdaml.git
```

Then, build the project (this may take a while).
```bash
docker build -f /path/to/lambdaml/Dockerfile.cpu -t lambdaml-project /path/to/lambdaml #Note: There is also a cuda Dockerfile.
```
After successfully building, run the project with:
```bash
docker run --rm -it lambdaml-project
```
The `--rm` option tells docker to remove the container and its data once it is shut down.
To retain the container data though, you can mount a local directory (`src`) to a directory (`dst`)
inside the container with the following:
```bash
docker run --rm -it -v <src>:<dst> lambdaml-project
```
To link all available GPUs on your node, e.g., in a SLURM job use the `--gpus all` option.
```bash
docker run --rm -it --gpus all lambdaml-project
```
If you really only need to run a single python script in the container and then exit, for example, for a SLURM job, you can do that too.
```bash
docker run --rm lambdaml-project python3 </path/to/my/python/sript.py>
```
Once you start the container you should have the following environment variables:
- `LAMBDAML_HOME`
- `LAMBDAML_APP_DIR`

### Installation by Hand

Begin by cloning the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/mfmceneaney/lambdaml.git
```
Create and activate a virtual python environment for your project
```bash
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```

Install the python modules.  These are listed in [pyproject.toml](pyproject.toml) and are all available with pip.
```bash
pip install -e .
```

Install the extra PyTorch-Geometric extensions needed for some of the GNN models.
```bash
pip install -r requirements-pyg-pt28-cpu.txt # Adjust pytorch and cuda version as needed.
```

<details>
<summary>:x: Installing PyTorch-Geometric on an HPC cluster</summary>

Follow the installation instructions on the [PyTorch Geometric Documentation](https://pytorch-geometric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/notes/installation.html).

If you are on *Ifarm* or another HPC cluster with a firewall, you will probably get an error like this:
```
WARNING: Retrying (Retry(total=1, connect=None, read=None, redirect=None, status=None)) after connection broken by 'ProtocolError('Connection aborted.', ConnectionResetError(104, 'Connection reset by peer'))': /wheels/repo.html
ERROR: Could not find a version that satisfies the requirement pyg-lib (from versions: none)
ERROR: No matching distribution found for pyg-lib
```
In this case, try downloading locally whatever distribution you want from the repo link posted on the installation page for installing with pip.  This will look like `https://data.pyg.org/whl/torch-${TORCH_VERSION}.html`.
Then transfer the downloaded distribution (e.g. with scp or rsync) to ifarm.

In your virtual environment you can now install from the local path:
```
pip install pyg-lib torch-scatter torch-sparse torch-cluster torch-spline-conv torch-geometric -f /path/to/distribution/you/just/uploaded
```
</details>

Add the following to your startup script
```bash
cd /path/to/lambdaml
source $PWD/bin/env.sh # csh version also available
cd
```

## :green_circle: Getting Started
Run the project pipelines for dataset creation, hyperparameter optimization, model selection, and model deployment in [pyscripts](pyscripts/).
```bash
python3 pyscripts/<some_script.py>
```

#

Contact: matthew.mceneaney@duke.edu

Commit message:

fix: Fix CUDA install on ifarm and directions.

README.md, after:

# $\Lambda$ ML

This is a project to train Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) for $\Lambda$ hyperon event identification at [CLAS12](https://www.jlab.org/physics/hall-b/clas12).
[Domain Adversarial](https://arxiv.org/abs/1505.07818), [Contrastive Adaptation](http://arxiv.org/abs/1901.00976), and [TIToK](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0893608023002137) approaches are implemented for adapting models to target data domains.

## :green_circle: Installation

You can use either a container image via [Docker](https://www.docker.com) or install manually assuming you have python installed.

### Installation Via Docker

Begin by cloning the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/mfmceneaney/lambdaml.git
```

Then, build the project (this may take a while).
```bash
docker build -f /path/to/lambdaml/Dockerfile.cpu -t lambdaml-project /path/to/lambdaml #Note: There is also a cuda Dockerfile.
```
After successfully building, run the project with:
```bash
docker run --rm -it lambdaml-project
```
The `--rm` option tells docker to remove the container and its data once it is shut down.
To retain the container data though, you can mount a local directory (`src`) to a directory (`dst`)
inside the container with the following:
```bash
docker run --rm -it -v <src>:<dst> lambdaml-project
```
To link all available GPUs on your node, e.g., in a SLURM job use the `--gpus all` option.
```bash
docker run --rm -it --gpus all lambdaml-project
```
If you really only need to run a single python script in the container and then exit, for example, for a SLURM job, you can do that too.
```bash
docker run --rm lambdaml-project python3 </path/to/my/python/sript.py>
```
Once you start the container you should have the following environment variables:
- `LAMBDAML_HOME`
- `LAMBDAML_APP_DIR`

### Installation by Hand

Begin by cloning the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/mfmceneaney/lambdaml.git
```
Create and activate a virtual python environment for your project
```bash
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```

Install the python modules.  These are listed in [pyproject.toml](pyproject.toml) and are all available with pip.
```bash
pip install -e .
```

Install the extra PyTorch-Geometric extensions needed for some of the GNN models.
```bash
pip install -r requirements-pyg-pt28-cpu.txt # Adjust pytorch and cuda version as needed.
```

<details>
<summary>:x: Installing PyTorch-Geometric on an HPC cluster</summary>

Follow the installation instructions on the [PyTorch Geometric Documentation](https://pytorch-geometric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/notes/installation.html).

If you are on *Ifarm* or another HPC cluster with a firewall, you will probably get an error like this:
```
WARNING: Retrying (Retry(total=1, connect=None, read=None, redirect=None, status=None)) after connection broken by 'ProtocolError('Connection aborted.', ConnectionResetError(104, 'Connection reset by peer'))': /wheels/repo.html
ERROR: Could not find a version that satisfies the requirement pyg-lib (from versions: none)
ERROR: No matching distribution found for pyg-lib
```
In this case, try downloading locally whatever distribution you need from the repo link posted on the installation page for installing with pip.  This will look like `https://data.pyg.org/whl/torch-${TORCH_VERSION}+${CUDA_VERSION}.html`.
Then transfer the downloaded distribution (e.g. with scp or rsync) to ifarm.

In your virtual environment you can now install from the local path:
```
pip install pyg-lib torch-scatter torch-sparse torch-cluster torch-spline-conv torch-geometric -f /path/to/distribution/you/just/uploaded
```

For your convenience put your packages in some directory `/path/to/packages` and use the CUDA docker file to install from this path.  You will need to mount the directory to `/pyg_packages` for the build to succeed.
```bash
docker build -v /path/to/packages:/pyg_packages -f /path/to/lambdaml/Dockerfile.cu129 -t lambdaml-project /path/to/lambdaml
```
</details>

Add the following to your startup script
```bash
cd /path/to/lambdaml
source $PWD/bin/env.sh # csh version also available
cd
```

## :green_circle: Getting Started
Run the project pipelines for dataset creation, hyperparameter optimization, model selection, and model deployment in [pyscripts](pyscripts/).
```bash
python3 pyscripts/<some_script.py>
```

#

Contact: matthew.mceneaney@duke.edu
